# 2021-NSDUH-Analysis

## Introduction

  The following is an analysis of preliminary prevalence estimates from the 2021 National Survey on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH). In particular, the prevalence estimates for the
populations of North Carolina (NC), the Southern Region of the United States (South), and the total United States (U.S.) were compared to reveal statistically significant differences among corresponding age groups.

  The South includes the following states: Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Tennessee, Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas.

## Disclaimer

  The data analyzed in this project were preliminary prevalence estimates provided by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), which are no longer available on their website. Thus, there may be discrepancies between the data seen here and that published in the updated, comprehensive 2021 NSDUH. Please refer to the cited source below for the most updated and accurate information:

  Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality. (2022). *Results from the 2021 National Survey on Drug Use and Health: Detailed tables*. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. <https://www.samhsa.gov/data/report/2021-nsduh-detailed-tables>

## Methodology

  State and census region estimates, along with the 95 percent Bayesian confidence (credible) intervals, are based on a survey-weighted hierarchical Bayes small area estimation approach and generated by Markov Chain Monte Carlo techniques. For the U.S. estimates, design-based (direct) estimates and corresponding 95 percent confidence intervals are given.

  Thirty five tables were cleaned and analyzed to reveal statistically significant differences in prevalence estimates between the populations of NC, the South, and the U.S, among corresponding age groups (12 - 17, 18 - 25, and 26+). Prevalence estimates were deemed significantly different if their 95% confidence intervals did not overlap. The three regions were only compared among corresponding age groups (e.g. NC: 18 - 25 was not compared with South: 12 - 17), and age groups were not compared within a single region.

  Tables 1 - 16, 18 - 28, and 32 listed prevalence estimates among people aged 12 or older. Tables 29 - 31 and 33 - 35 listed prevalence estimates among people aged 18 or older. Table 17 only lists prevalence estimates for one age group (people aged 12-20).

## Files
  The analysis files (R Markdown and HTML notebook) display the code and report of the results all in one document. The report files (R Markdown and PDF) display only the report of the results.
